# Daily Research Journal:

## Current Phase
- Phase: [2]
- Focus Area: Further improve EA training dataset

## Activities Completed
1. Included academic, peer reviewed papers
2. Finished 2/5 80000 hours podcast key topics

## Observations
### Key Findings
- Effective Altruism is relatively young, and it is recommended to treat it that way. EA supporters are using imperfect tools  to do better good, and it's encouraged to challenge those tools and improve on them, not treat the current state as doctrine.
- There are real concerns about it being technocratic. "Cause-neutrality" can be damaging in the same way "I don't see skin color" is. One of the papers show quantifiable proof it is a net good, but pairing it with a justice/equality centered model is likely a good yin to its yang. 

### Unexpected Results
- I spent a lot of time with Objections and perceived Cons of EA. It reinforces my personal worry that treating human sciences as a math problem will always lead to neglect and systemic disadvantages. In its current version, I at least hope to see work done in EA on trying to measure indirect benefits like good will. I also believe that we need a way to measure the idea that "To truly maximize when factoring in the human, it might require the non-maximum application." If a widely held cause is only marginally worse than the actual optimal cause, the time, energy, resources, and good will lost to fight for the optimal cause is a net negative on goodness.

## Resources Used
- [Training Effective Altruism](https://globalprioritiesinstitute.org/wp-content/uploads/Mehmood-Naseer-Chen-Training-effective-altruism.pdf)
- [The use of Quality-Adjusted Life Years in cost-effectiveness analyses in palliative care: Mapping the debate through an integrative review](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC5405846/pdf/10.1177_0269216316689652.pdf)
- [Effective Altruism and its Critics](https://ora.ox.ac.uk/objects/uuid:a12dc3d4-09ba-49cf-983b-71231f3ef615/files/m4f6354dcd585787835f4aa6c2dd91064)
