# Daily Research Journal:

## Current Phase
- Phase: [2]
- Focus Area: Gathering quality Effective Altruism data.

## Activities Completed
1. Scraped EA subbreddit for top posts and comments. Did the same for the top posts on effectivealtruism.org forums.
2. Reviewed Panos' feedback on reinforcement and un/supervised learning for human sciences.
3. Built scraper for 80000 hours podcast transcripts. 

### Key Findings
- The respirator scenario (10 masks, 15 patients) is great for an EA evaluation question. Check my reasoning, but the agent should look at the delta between the patients' chances of survival with and without the respirator ("What would've happened otherwise?") and give it to the biggest swings.
### Unexpected Results
- 


## Challenges Encountered
- Panos shared feedback on my question on reinforcement and un/supervised learning and how it relates to collaborative vs. competitive learning for human science models.
  - Impact: He provided a resource for "curiosity driven learning," read this first. My takeaway was that any possible "solutions" around this or agent communication are incredibly technical, and not my wheelhouse.
  - Resolution/Plan: Stick with building the high-quality datasets first. I'm asking Chapter 5 questions and am still doing the homework from Chapter 1. Build up to the more complicated stuff, and seek feedback on what I do bring.
  - Ran into trouble analyzing podcast transcript data. I have a basic script, but I should use more advanced tools that will return better insights, and more quickly, than I can.
  - Impact: I want to pick out key insights, recurring topics, frequent words to help inform training data.
  - Resolution/Plan: Tried Google Collab for analytics but it fails with the combined transcript. Try again tomorrow.


## Questions Raised
- Should I pull all of EA subreddit and forum instead of top posts?
  - Context: With the transcripts, I'll analyze frequent words or phrases, then dig in to find high quality content around them. Should I treat other sources the same?
  

## Next Steps
- Clean and analyze podcast transcripts for common themes/tokens
- Make decision on more thorough scraping of forum and reddit
- Write evaluation question with respirator scenario
- I got the Google Collab script to run for insights at the end of the day. Dig into findings tomorro.

## Resources Used
- Panos Achlioptas
- 80000hours.org podcast transcripts
- [Kaggle dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/andreasgravrok/80000-hours-podcast-all-transcripts?resource=download)
- Pandas library
